.TH "SYSMGR" "8" "October 2020" "sysmgr-VERSION" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
sysmgr \- system manager
.SH DESCRIPTION
sysmgr is a service supervisor for UNIX systems. It executes the service scripts
(usually shell scripts) from the service directory and restarts them if they go
down.
.SH USAGE
The operation of sysmgr is manipulated through
.BR svctl(1),
and
.BR RUNDIR
and
.BR SYSDIR
environment variables.
.SS Defining directories
The service directory and the run directory can be defined both through the
config.h file on compilation and during runtime from environment variables.
.SS Service scripts
Service scripts can be any executable, but are usually small shell scripts. Here
is an example:
.nf

    #!/bin/sh -e
    exec httpd -f -p 8054 -h /var/www/html

.fi
The exec call makes sure that sysmgr is tracking the pid of the actual process
rather than the shell script itself.
.SH SERVICE DEPENDENCIES
sysmgr doesn't deal with service dependencies on its own, but a sysmgr-depends
tool is provided in order to deal with such a requirement. You can use this tool
in your service scripts to wait until a service is up. The usage is as follows:
.nf

     #!/bin/sh -e
     sysmgr-depends dbus
     exec NetworkManager -n

.fi
.SH STARTING SYSMGR ON BOOT
In order to start sysmgr, you need to implement it into your init\-scheme. For
sysvinit and its clones (such as busybox\-init) add a line to your inittab as
follows:

.nf
::respawn:/usr/bin/sysmgr
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Cem Keylan <cem@ckyln.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svctl(1)
.BR runsyssv(1)
.BR sysmgr-depends(1)
